#economics #industrial #model 
# Definitions, Categories and Empirics
Bain's definition of barrier to entry:
- Any obstacle to entry by new firms, which allows incumbents to maintain prices that in turn yield long run abnormal profits
4 kinds of barriers to entry:
1. Product differentiation barriers
	- Incumbents have highly differentiated products and an established brand image, possibly created by advertising or after sales services.
2. Scale economic barriers
	- Technical economies of scale (L shaped long-run average cost curve)
	- Pecuniary economies of scale
		- Barriers are generated by the scale of purchases of inputs, giving certain firms monopsony power.
3. Absolute cost advantage barrier
	- The incumbent is able to produce any quantity of output at a lower cost, thanks to:
		1. More talented staff
		2. Experience
		3. Patents
		4. Access to scarce materials
4. Initial capital requirement barrier
	- The amount of capital for investment initially required, AKA capital start-up costs.
	- Financial services help lower this barrier.
## Limit-pricing
Bain argued that barriers to entry lead to the establishment of a *limit*, or entry forestalling price, defined as:
- The highest common price which the incumbents believe they can charge without inducing at least one potential competitor to enter
- $P_{L}=P_{C}\cdot(1+m)$
	- Where:
		- $P_{L}$ is the limit price
		- $P_{C}$ is the competitive price
		- $m$ is the mark-up
Subsequent theories have formalised Bain's ideas, although they focus more on economies of scale.
# Modigliani's Limit-pricing model
This is the main model for limit-pricing.
## Assumptions
1. One incumbent and one potential entrant
2. Perfect information about the industry's demand and cost structure
3. Single homogeneous product, perfect substitution, i.e., no product differentiation
4. Economies of scale for both incumbent and potential entrant (L-shaped long-run Average Cost curve)
5. Sylos postulate: a potential entrant takes the existing output as given, and assumes the incumbent will not change output due to their entry.

If we take:
- $\bar{Q}=\text{Economies of scale quantity}$
- $Q_{L}=\text{Limit quantity}$
- $Q_{C}=\text{Competitive quantity}$
Then $Q_{L}=Q_{C}-\bar{Q}$.
- If the new entrant produces less than $\bar{Q}$, they will not benefit from economies of scale and have very high average costs.
- If the entrant produces $\bar{Q}$, they will break-even, so have no incentive to enter the market
- If the entrant produces more than $\bar{Q}$, they will make a loss, because for the amount of quantity on the market, demand, so price and average revenue, will be lower than average cost.

Textbooks say there is little evidence of the use of limit-price strategies.
### Modigliani's model with cost advantage
Assumption 4 changes:
- Incumbent has a lower long-run average cost than entrant.
Incumbent will produce at the competitive price of the entrant, which for them gives supernormal profit due to their lower average costs.
## Criticisms
1. Modigliani's model exclusively considers economies of scale and cost advantage, ignoring product differentiation, which, according to Bain's empirical work, played a very important role.
2. Unrealistic:
	1. Perfect information
	2. Sylos postulate
3. Little evidence of firms implementing these strategies, and when it was used there is little evidence of how successful it was.
	1. [Oil Price War](https://www.bloomberg.com/view/articles/2015-01-12/americas-going-to-lose-the-oil-price-war)
	2. 
# Dixits model of investment
Investment by the incumbent demonstrates willingness to fight for their market share.
Model uses game theory to demonstrate effects.

Incumbents pre-commit themselves to fighting a price war by making a commitment $C$ which makes the profits due to a price war greater than the profits in a duopoly. Thus, new entrants will see a price war as a credible threat.

